CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Mixed Reality Extension SDK Contribution Guide

Want to help out? Great! Here are a couple of ways to help:

## Build Something Cool
If you make something with this SDK, tell us about it. We'd love to hear your 
experience, both the good and the bad.


## Give Feedback
Submit bugs and feature requests on the [issues page](
https://github.com/microsoft/mixed-reality-extension-sdk/issues) and help us
verify fixes.


## Contribute Code
Submit [pull requests](
https://github.com/Microsoft/mixed-reality-extension-sdk/pulls) for bug fixes
and features.


## Learning TypeScript
If you already know JavaScript, TypeScript is quick to get started with. 
TypeScript is a superset of JavaScript that adds static typing. Here is a [5
minute tour of TypeScript](
http://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/typescript-in-5-minutes.html).


## Where to start
Not sure what to implement? There are a number of [issues labeled Help Wanted](
https://github.com/microsoft/mixed-reality-extension-sdk/labels/help%20wanted)
that could all be good starting points.

Other areas could be to create additional functional tests and samples, and to
comment on the documentation. 

This repository only contains the server side of the SDK, so any protocol 
changes have to be coordinated with the AltspaceVR client development team.


## Tips to create good pull requests
Before accepting pull requests, we run all functional tests within the host 
app.
* Clear description
* Single issue per pull request


## Coding guidelines
* Run TS-Lint to be clean
* If using Visual Studio Code, use the auto-formatter (alt+shift+f)
* add copyright header to new files


---
## Legal
This project welcomes contributions and suggestions.  Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit https://cla.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA-bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., label, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

Commit message:

added info about mre-unity

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Mixed Reality Extension SDK Contribution Guide

Want to help out? Great! Here are a couple of ways to help:

## Build Something Cool
If you make something with this SDK, tell us about it. We'd love to hear your 
experience, both the good and the bad.


## Give Feedback
Submit bugs and feature requests on the [issues page](
https://github.com/microsoft/mixed-reality-extension-sdk/issues) and help us
verify fixes.


## Contribute Code
Submit [pull requests](
https://github.com/Microsoft/mixed-reality-extension-sdk/pulls) for bug fixes
and features. This repository only contains the server side of the SDK, so any 
protocol changes have to be matched with a pull request in the
[mixed-reality-extension-unity](
https://github.com/microsoft/mixed-reality-extension-unity) repository.



## Learning TypeScript
If you already know JavaScript, TypeScript is quick to get started with. 
TypeScript is a superset of JavaScript that adds static typing. Here is a [5
minute tour of TypeScript](
http://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/typescript-in-5-minutes.html).


## Where to start
Not sure what to implement? There are a number of [issues labeled Help Wanted](
https://github.com/microsoft/mixed-reality-extension-sdk/labels/help%20wanted)
that could all be good starting points.

Other areas could be to create additional functional tests and samples, and to
comment on the documentation. 



## Tips to create good pull requests
Before accepting pull requests, we run all functional tests within the host 
app.
* Clear description
* Single issue per pull request
* Mention if there is a matching pull request in the unity repository


## Coding guidelines
* Run TS-Lint to be clean
* If using Visual Studio Code, use the auto-formatter (alt+shift+f)
* add copyright header to new files


---
## Legal
This project welcomes contributions and suggestions.  Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit https://cla.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA-bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., label, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.
